Update stabilization documentation (#32)
rust-lang/std-dev-guide: src/feature-lifecycle/stabilization.md

# Stabilizing features

* **Status:** Current

> * **Last Updated:** 2022/03/10

Reviewer: Let's use ISO's standard date format. Whenever I see a date in any other format I get paranoid the month and day might be swapped ^^'

```suggestion
* **Last Updated:** 2022-03-10
```

Feature stabilization involves adding `#[stable]` attributes. They may be introduced alongside new trait impls or replace existing `#[unstable]` attributes.

> Stabilization goes through the Libs FCP[^1] process, which occurs on the [tracking issue](./tracking-issues.md) for the feature.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Stabilization goes through the Libs FCP[^1] process, which typically occurs on the [tracking issue](./tracking-issues.md) for the feature.
```

## When is an FCP appropriate?

> Once an unstable feature has been well-tested with no outstanding concerns, anyone may push for it's stabilization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once an unstable feature has been well-tested with no outstanding concerns, anyone may push for its stabilization.
```

> Once an unstable feature has been well-tested with no outstanding concerns, anyone may push for it's stabilization.

Reviewer: Rather than 'well-tested' it might make sense to focus more on the API design rather than implementation, like saying something about how the design space (alternative APIs) must have been fully explored.

If you're unsure if a feature is ready for stabilization the first step should be to ask in the relevant tracking issue and get assistance from other participants in that discussion. In some cases the tracking issue may not have many other active participants, so if you're ever having trouble getting any feedback please ping one of the [libs team reviewers](https://github.com/rust-lang/highfive/blob/master/highfive/configs/rust-lang/rust.json) directly to request assistance.

## Stabilization Report

Once a feature is ready for stabilization the first step of the FCP process is writing a stabilization report. Stabilization reports consist of three primary sections, a implementation history, an API summary, and an experience report.

The **Implementation History** section should summarize the initial discussion during the implementation PR, every change that has been made to the feature since the initial implementation, all issues that were raised during the lifetime of the feature, and how they were resolved.

> The **API Summary** section should include a precise description of what APIs are being introduced to the standard libraries. The libs team maintains a tool for this called [`cargo unstable-api`](https://github.com/rust-lang/libs-team/tree/main/tools/unstable-api) that can be used to generate these API summaries in some cases. *Note* the current implementation of this tool is fragile and does not work in all cases. We hope to have a more permanent version of this tool in the future that is built ontop of either rustdoc or rustc's own APIs.

Reviewer: Maybe we can add here that it'd be nice if the top comment is also updated with an up-to-date history and api summary (if they can edit it)? And that the stabilizaiton report can just link to that?

The **Experience Report** section should include links to projects that use the feature being stabilized, or when applicable, projects that use crates that export the same API and describe the experience of using the feature in question.

You can see examples of stabilization reports in tracking issues [#88581](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/88581#issuecomment-1054642118) and [#29553](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/29553).

## Before writing a PR to stabilize a feature

Check to see if a FCP has completed first. If not, either ping `@rust-lang/libs` or leave a comment asking about the status of the feature.

This will save you from opening a stabilization PR and having it need regular rebasing while the FCP process runs its course.

## Partial Stabilizations

> When you only wish to stabilize a subset of an existing feature you should skip creating a new tracking issue and instead create a partial stabilization + tracking PR for the subset of the feature being stabilized. When you're splitting up the feature, you should always introduce a new feature name for the portion being stabilized and leave the existing feature for the portions left unstable, that way existing users of that feature are not left in a broken state.

Reviewer: The phrase "tracking PR" is new to me. Should we just call it "stabilization PR" rather than "stabilization + tracking PR"?

> When you only wish to stabilize a subset of an existing feature you should skip creating a new tracking issue and instead create a partial stabilization + tracking PR for the subset of the feature being stabilized. When you're splitting up the feature, you should always introduce a new feature name for the portion being stabilized and leave the existing feature for the portions left unstable, that way existing users of that feature are not left in a broken state.

Reviewer: I'm not sure it always makes sense to pick a new name for the stable part and keep the name for the unstable part. If the main parts of a feature get stabilized, it might make more sense for the more niche parts to get their own feature name(s) instead.

Author: This was added because of [this comment](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/219381-t-libs/topic/First.20time.20going.20through.20FCP/near/274262666) by @scottmcm. I'm having trouble imaging a scenario where the name of the portion being stabilized being the same as the original feature name would matter more than the than not breaking the code of the people who were using that feature name to enable the portions of the feature left unstable.

Reviewer: If we stabilize the majority of some feature except for a small less commonly used part, I think it's better to keep the original feature name and move the smaller part to a new name. That way, most users will just get a warning saying that the `#![feature(..)]` they enable has been stabilized and they can just remove it. Those who do use the small part that has not been stabilized yet can then also consider updating their code to avoid the still unstable part, since they might now be able to do what they want with the big part of the feature that has been stabilized.

For example, imagine we'd stabilize `Saturating` except for `Saturating::pow`. Then we should probably keep the same feature name for the stabilization and use a new feature name for the still unstable `pow` method.

Author: Is the issue here that people don't get a warning if they enable a feature and never use it? So in the case where they enabled the old feature name and we stabilize all the APIs that they used under a new feature name they would be left in the dark and continue to use the old feature and stay on nightly much longer than needed.

### Remove feature gates from doctests

All the doctests on the items being stabilized will be enabling the unstable feature, so now that it's stable those attributes are no longer needed and should be removed.

`````diff
 /// # Examples
 ///
 /// ```
-/// #![feature(total_cmp)]
-///
 /// assert_eq!(0.0_f32.total_cmp(&-0.0), std::cmp::Ordering::Greater);
 /// ```
`````

The most obvious place to find these is on the item itself, but it's worth searching the whole library.  Often you'll find other unstable methods that were also using it in their tests.

### Remove feature gates from the compiler

The compiler builds with nightly features allowed, so you may find uses of the feature there as well.  These also need to be removed.

```diff
 #![feature(once_cell)]
 #![feature(never_type)]
-#![feature(total_cmp)]
 #![feature(trusted_step)]
 #![feature(try_blocks)]
```

## Stabilization PR Checklist

To stabilize a feature, follow these steps:

> 0. (Optional) For partial stabilizations, create a new tracking issue for either the subset being stabilized or the subset being left unstable, whichever makes the most sense based on the situation.

Reviewer 3: Pondering: It feels odd to make a new tracking issue part of the partial *stabilization*, since it'll just be closed immediately if that subset does actually stabilize.

This is one place where I think the "make a stabilization PR" flow is actually better.  It's *easier* to make a stabilization PR than a "split up the feature gate" PR.  And it's less impactful to nightly users -- if it's split, they all have to add more feature gates, which is particularly obnoxious if the goal is just to stabilize the new one ASAP, after which they'd need to remove it again.

Reviewer 4: Agreed. In my experience asking on Zulip or the existing tracking issue is sufficient to gauge interest in a partial stabilization, which ensures time isn't wasted on PRs. Creating a new tracking issue seems noisy and somewhat disruptive to nightly users.

Author: We wanted to avoid suggesting Zulip here to avoid splitting discussions across multiple platforms, but yea generally our goal here is to communicate how to move these issues forward most effectively / least disruptively. I'll update this section to clarify that for partial stabilizations they can skip creating a new tracking issue and do the stabilization report as part of the PR doing said stabilization.

Reviewer 4: Sounds good to me. Ideally we'd be able to have multiple FCPs per issue, but I know that's not currently possible.

Reviewer 3: I actually like the different items for different FCPs, myself.  A PR for the stabilization make it much clearer exactly what an FCP is stabilizing, if it's not "everything with this feature".  And GitHub is not great at hundreds-of-posts anyway, which can easily happen with a bunch of FCPs in the same item.

`````diff
 /// # Examples
 ///
 /// ```
-/// #![feature(total_cmp)]
-///
 /// assert_eq!(0.0_f32.total_cmp(&-0.0), std::cmp::Ordering::Greater);
 /// ```
`````

The most obvious place to find these is on the item itself, but it's worth searching the whole library.  Often you'll find other unstable methods that were also using it in their tests.

### Remove feature gates from the compiler

The compiler builds with nightly features allowed, so you may find uses of the feature there as well.  These also need to be removed.

```diff
 #![feature(once_cell)]
 #![feature(never_type)]
-#![feature(total_cmp)]
 #![feature(trusted_step)]
 #![feature(try_blocks)]
```

## Stabilization PR Checklist

To stabilize a feature, follow these steps:

0. Create a stabiliation report in the tracking issue for the feature being stabilized.
0. (Optional) For partial stabilizations, create a new partial stabilization + tracking PR for the subset of the issue being stabilized under a newly introduced feature name.
0. Ask a **@rust-lang/libs-api** member to start an FCP on the tracking issue and wait for the FCP to complete (with `disposition-merge`).

> 0. Change `#[unstable(...)]` to `#[stable(since = "version")]`. `version` should be the *current nightly*, i.e. stable+2. You can see which version is the current nightly [on Forge](https://forge.rust-lang.org/#current-release-versions).

Reviewer: Maybe the `src/version` file is a better source of the current nightly version: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/blob/master/src/version

Author: I'd prefer to direct people to forge. Its full of a bunch of other useful information and there's less risk of them checking the local `src/version` file on their checkout which could be out of date.

Author: Oh, I didn't know that. In that case I'll update the link.

0. Remove `#![feature(...)]` from any test or doc-test for this API. If the feature is used in the compiler or tools, remove it from there as well.
0. If applicable, change `#[rustc_const_unstable(...)]` to `#[rustc_const_stable(since = "version")]`.
0. Open a PR against `rust-lang/rust`.
   - Add the appropriate labels: `@rustbot modify labels: +T-libs-api`.

>    - Link to the tracking issue and say "Closes #XXXXX".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Link to the tracking issue by adding "Closes #XXXXX".
```

You can see an example of stabilizing a feature with [tracking issue #81656 with FCP](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/81656) and the associated [implementation PR #84642](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/84642).

> [^1]: FCP stands for final comment period

Reviewer 2: Could you move the footnote up to right under the text it footnotes, to make it easier to find when editing?
